SAN MIGUEL CORPORATION  PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY POLICY   I.
 DEFINITIONS  A.
 Data Privacy Act or DPA refers to Republic Act No.
 10173 or the Data Privacy Act of 2012 and its implementing rules and regulations.
  B.
 Data  Subject  refers  to  an  individual  whose  Personal  Information,  Sensitive Personal Information, or Privileged Information is processed.
   C.
 Company refers to San Miguel Corporation.
  D.
 Personal  Data  collectively  refers  to  Personal  Information,  Sensitive  Personal Information, and Privileged Information.
   E. Personal Information refers to any information, whether recorded in a material form  or  not,  from  which  the  identity  of  an  individual  is  apparent  or  can  be reasonably and directly ascertained by the entity holding the information, or when put together with other information would directly and certainly identify an individual.
  F.
 Processing  refers  to  any  operation  or  set  of  operations  performed  upon Personal  Data  including,  but  not  limited  to,  the  collection,  recording, organization,  storage,  updating  or  modification,  retrieval,  consultation,  use, consolidation,  blocking,  erasure  or  destruction  of data.
  Processing  may  be performed  through  automated  means,  or  manual  processing,  if  the  Personal Data are contained or are intended to be contained in a filing system.
  G.
 Privileged  Information  refers to  any  and  all  forms  of  Personal  Data,  which, under  the  Rules  of  Court  and  other  pertinent  laws  constitute  privileged communication.
  H.
 Security Incident is an event or occurrence that affects or tends to affect data protection, or may compromise the availability, integrity and confidentiality of Personal Data.
 It includes incidents that would result to a personal data breach, if not for safeguards that have been put in place.  I.
 Sensitive Personal Information refers to Personal Data:  Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 2   2 1. About  an  individual’s  race,  ethnic  origin,  marital status,  age,  color,  and religious, philosophical or political affiliations;
  2. About  an  individual’s  health,  education,  genetic  or  sexual  life,  or  to  any proceeding for any offense committed or alleged to have been committed by such individual, the disposal of such proceedings, or the sentence of any court in such proceedings;
  3. Issued by government agencies peculiar to an individual  which includes, but  is  not  limited  to,  social  security  numbers,  previous  or  current  health records, licenses or its denials, suspension or revocation, and tax returns;
 and  4. Specifically established by an executive order or an act of Congress to be kept classified.
  II.
 ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY MEASURES  A.
 Data Protection Officer  A Data Protection Officer (“DPO”) shall be appointed by the Company.
    The  DPO  is  responsible  for  ensuring  the  Company’s  compliance  with applicable laws and regulations for the protection of data privacy and security.
 The functions and responsibilities of the DPO shall particularly include, among others:  1. monitoring the Company’s Personal Data Processing activities in order to  ensure  compliance  with  applicable  Personal  Data privacy  laws  and regulations, including the conduct of periodic internal audits and review to  ensure  that  all  the Company’s  data  privacy  policies  are  adequately implemented by its employees and authorized agents;
  2. acting  as  a  liaison  between  the  Company  and  the  regulatory  and accrediting  bodies,  and  is  in  charge  of  the  applicable  registration, notification, and reportorial requirements mandated by the Data Privacy Act, as well any other applicable data privacy laws and regulations;
  3. developing, establishing, and reviewing policies and procedures for the exercise by Data Subjects of their rights under the Data Privacy Act and other applicable laws and regulations on Personal Data privacy;
  Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 3   3 4. acting  as  the  primary  point  of  contact  whom  Data  Subject  may coordinate  and  consult  with  for  all  concerns  relating  to  their  Personal Data;
  5. formulating  capacity  building,  orientation,  and  training  programs  for employees,  agents  or  representatives  of  the  Company  regarding Personal Data privacy and security policies;
  6. preparing and filing the annual report of the summary of documented security incidents and Personal Data breaches, if any, as required under the Data Privacy Act, and of compliance with other requirements that may  be  provided  in  other  issuances  of  the  National Privacy Commission.
   B.
 Data Privacy Principles  All Processing of Personal Data within the Company should be conducted in compliance with the following data privacy principles as espoused in the Data Privacy Act:  a.
 Transparency.
 The Data Subject must be aware of the nature, purpose, and extent  of  the  Processing  of  his  or  her  Personal  Data  by  the  Company, including  the  risks  and  safeguards  involved,  the  identity  of  persons  and entities involved in Processing his or her Personal Data, his or her rights as a  Data  Subject,  and  how  these  can  be  exercised.
  Any  information  and communication relating to the Processing of Personal Data should be easy to access and understand, using clear and plain language.  b.
 Legitimate purpose. The Processing of Personal Data by the Company shall be  compatible  with  a  declared  and  specified  purpose  which  must  not  be contrary to law, morals, or public policy.
  c.
 Proportionality.
  The  Processing  of  Personal  Data  shall  be  adequate, relevant, suitable, necessary, and not excessive in relation to a declared and specified purpose. Personal Data shall be processed by the Company only if the  purpose  of  the  Processing  could  not  reasonably be  fulfilled  by  other means.
     Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 4   4 C.
 Data Processing Records  Adequate records of the Company’s Personal Data Processing activities shall be maintained at all times.
 The DPO, with the cooperation and assistance of all the concerned  business  and  service  units  involved  in  the  Processing  of  Personal Data, shall be responsible for ensuring that these records are kept up-to-date. These records shall include, at the minimum:  1. information  about  the  purpose  of  the  Processing  of Personal  Data, including any intended future Processing or data sharing;
  2. a  description  of  all  categories  of  Data  Subjects,  Personal  Data,  and recipients of such Personal Data that will be involved in the Processing;
  3. general information about the data flow within the Company, from the time of collection and retention, including the time limits for disposal or erasure of Personal Data;
  4. a  general  description  of  the  organizational,  physical,  and  technical security measures in place within the Company;
 and  5. the name and contact details of the DPO, Personal Data processors, as well  as  any  other  staff  members  accountable  for  ensuring  compliance with  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations  for  the  protection  of  data privacy and security.
  D.
 Management of Human Resources  The DPO, with the cooperation of the Company’s Corporate Human Resources department (“CHR”), shall develop and implement measures to ensure that all the Company’s staff who have access to Personal Data will strictly process such data in compliance with the requirements of the Data Privacy Act and other applicable laws and regulations.
 These measures may include drafting new or updated relevant policies of the Company and conducting training programs to educate employees and agents on data privacy related concerns.
  The DPO, with the assistance of CHR, shall ensure that Company shall obtain the employee’s informed consent, evidenced by written, electronic or recorded means, to:   Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 5   5 1. The Processing of his or her Personal Data, for purposes of maintaining the Company’s records;
 and  2. A continuing obligation of confidentiality on the employee’s part in connection with the Personal Data that he or she may encounter during the period of employment with the Company.
 This obligation shall apply even after the employee has left the Company for whatever reasons.
  E. Data Collection Procedures  The  DPO,  with  the  assistance  of  the  Company’s  CHR  and  any  other departments of the Company responsible for the Processing of Personal Data, shall document the Company’s Personal Data Processing procedures.
 The DPO shall ensure that such procedures are updated and that the consent of the Data Subjects (when required by the DPA or other applicable laws or regulations) is properly  obtained  and  evidenced  by  written,  electronic  or  recorded  means.
 Such procedures shall also be regularly monitored, modified, and updated to ensure that the rights of the Data Subjects are respected, and that Processing thereof is done fully in accordance with the DPA and other applicable laws and regulations.
  F.
 Data Retention Schedule  Subject  to  applicable  requirements  of  the  DPA  and  other  relevant  laws  and regulations, Personal Data shall not be retained by the Company for a period longer  than  necessary  and/or  proportionate  to  the  purposes  for  which  such data was collected.
 The DPO, with the assistance of the Company’s CHR and any  other  departments  of  the  Company  responsible  for  the  Processing  of Personal Data, shall be responsible for developing measures to determine the applicable  data  retention  schedules,  and  procedures  to  allow  for  the withdrawal  of  previously  given  consent  of  the  Data Subject,  as  well  as  to safeguard  the  destruction  and  disposal  of  such  Personal  Data  in  accordance with the DPA and other applicable laws and regulations.
   III.
 PHYSICAL SECURITY MEASURES  The  DPO,  with  the  assistance  of  CHR  and  the  Corporate  Information  and Technology  Management  department  (“CITM”),  shall  develop  and  implement policies  and  procedures  for  the  Company  to  monitor and  limit  access  to,  and activities  in,  the  offices  of  CHR,  as  well  as  any  other  departments  and/or Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 6   6 workstations  in  the  Company  where  Personal  Data  is processed,  including guidelines that specify the proper use of, and access to, electronic media.
  The  design  and  layout  of  the  office  spaces  and  work  stations  of  the abovementioned  departments,  including  the  physical arrangement  of  furniture and equipment, shall be periodically evaluated and readjusted in order to provide privacy  to  anyone  Processing  Personal  Data,  taking into  consideration  the environment and accessibility to unauthorized persons.
  The  duties,  responsibilities,  and  schedules  of  individuals  involved  in  the Processing  of  Personal  Data  shall  be  clearly  defined  to  ensure  that  only  the individuals actually performing official duties shall be in the room or work station, at any given time. Further, the rooms and workstations used in the Processing of Personal  Data  shall,  as  far  as  practicable,  be  secured  against  natural  disasters, power disturbances, external access, and other similar threats.
  IV.
 TECHNICAL SECURITY MEASURES  The  DPO,  with  the  cooperation  and  assistance  of  CITM,  shall  continuously develop and evaluate the Company’s security policy with respect to the Processing of  Personal  Data.
  The  security  policy  should  include  the  following  minimum requirements:  a.
 safeguards  to  protect  the  Company’s  computer  network  and  systems against accidental, unlawful, or unauthorized usage, any interference which will  affect  data  integrity  or  hinder  the  functioning  or  availability  of  the system, and unauthorized access;
  b.
 the ability to ensure and maintain the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and resilience of the Company’s data processing systems and services;
  c.
 regular monitoring for security breaches, and a process both for identifying and  accessing  reasonably  foreseeable  vulnerabilities  in  the  Company’s computer network and system, and for taking preventive, corrective, and mitigating actions against security incidents that can lead to a Personal Data breach;
  d.
 the ability to restore the availability and access to Personal Data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident;
  e. a process for regularly testing, assessing, and evaluating the effectiveness of security measures;
 and Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 7   7  f.
 encryption  of  Personal  Data  during  storage  and  while  in  transit, authentication process, and other technical security measures that control and limit access thereto.
  V.
 RIGHTS OF THE DATA SUBJECT  As provided under the DPA, Data Subjects have the following rights in connection with the Processing of their Personal Data: right to be informed, right to object, right  to  access,  right  to  rectification,  right  to  erasure  or  blocking,  and  right  to damages.
 Employees and agents of the Company are required to strictly respect and obey the rights of the Data Subjects.
 The DPO, with the assistance of CHR shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  such  compliance  and  developing  the appropriate disciplinary measures and mechanism.
  A.
 Right to be Informed  The  Data  Subject  has  the  right  to  be  informed  whether  Personal  Data pertaining to him or her shall be, are being, or have been processed.
  The Data Subject shall be notified and furnished with information indicated hereunder before the entry of his or her Personal Data into the records of the Company, or at the next practical opportunity:  a.
 description of the Personal Data to be entered into the system;
  b.
 purposes  for  which  they  are  being  or  will  be  processed,  including Processing for direct marketing, profiling or historical, statistical or scientific purpose;
  c.
 basis of Processing, when Processing is not based on the consent of the Data Subject;
  d.
 scope and method of the Personal Data Processing;
  e. the recipients or classes of recipients to whom the Personal Data are or may be disclosed or shared;
  f.
 methods utilized for automated access, if the same is allowed by the Data  Subject,  and  the  extent  to  which  such  access  is  authorized, including meaningful information about the logic involved, as well Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 8   8 as  the  significance  and  the  envisaged  consequences of  such Processing for the Data Subject;
  g.
 the identity and contact details of the DPO;
  h.
 the period for which the Personal Data will be stored;
 and  i.
 the existence of their rights as Data Subjects, including the right to access, correction, and to object to the Processing, as well as the right to lodge a complaint before the National Privacy Commission.
  B.
 Right to Object  The Data Subject shall have the right to object to the Processing of his or her Personal  Data,  including  Processing  for  direct  marketing,  automated Processing or profiling.
 The Data Subject shall also be notified and given an opportunity to withhold consent to the Processing in case of changes or any amendment to the information supplied or declared to the Data Subject in the preceding paragraph.
  When  a  Data  Subject  objects  or  withholds  consent,  the  Company  shall  no longer process the Personal Data, unless:  1. the Personal Data is needed pursuant to a subpoena;
  2. the Processing is for obvious purposes, including, when it is necessary for the performance of or in relation to a contract or service to which the Data Subject is a party, or when necessary or desirable in the context of an employer-employee relationship between the Company and the Data Subject;
 or  3. the  Personal  Data  is  being  collected  and  processed to  comply  with  a legal obligation.
  C.
 Right to Access  The  Data  Subject  has  the  right  to  reasonable  access  to,  upon  demand,  the following:  1. Contents of his or her Personal Data that were processed;
  2. Sources from which Personal Data were obtained;
 Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 9   9  3. Names and addresses of recipients of the Personal Data;
  4. Manner by which his or her Personal Data were processed;
  5. Reasons for the disclosure of the Personal Data to recipients, if any;
  6. Information on automated processes where the Personal Data will, or is likely  to,  be  made  as  the  sole  basis  for  any  decision  that  significantly affects or will affect the Data Subject;
  7. Date when Personal Data concerning the Data Subject were last accessed and modified;
 and  8. The designation, name or identity, and address of the DPO.
  D.
 Right to Rectification  The Data Subject has the right to dispute the inaccuracy or rectify the error in his or her Personal Data, and the Company shall correct it immediately and accordingly, unless the request is vexatious or otherwise unreasonable. If the Personal Data has been corrected, the Company shall ensure the accessibility of both the new and the retracted Personal Data and the simultaneous receipt of the  new  and  the  retracted  Personal  Data  by  the  intended  recipients  thereof: Provided, That recipients or third parties who have previously received such processed Personal Data shall be informed of its inaccuracy and its rectification, upon reasonable request of the Data Subject.
  E. Right to Erasure or Blocking  The  Data  Subject  shall  have  the  right  to  suspend,  withdraw,  or  order  the blocking,  removal,  or  destruction  of  his  or  her  Personal  Data  from  the Company’s filing system.
  1. This right may be exercised upon discovery and substantial proof of any of the following:  (a) The Personal Data is incomplete, outdated, false, or unlawfully obtained;
  (b) The Personal Data is being used for purpose not authorized by the Data Subject;
 Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 10   10  (c) The Personal Data is no longer necessary for the purposes for which they were collected;
  (d) The Data Subject withdraws consent or objects to the Processing, and  there  is  no  other  legal  ground  or  overriding  legitimate interest for the Processing by the Company;
  (e) The Personal Data concerns private information that is prejudicial to  Data  Subject,  unless  justified  by  freedom  of  speech,  of expression, or of the press or otherwise authorized;
  (f) The Processing is unlawful;
 or  (g) The Data Subject’s rights have been violated.
  2. The DPO may notify third parties who have previously received such processed Personal Data that the Data Subject has withdrawn his or her consent to the Processing thereof upon reasonable request by the Data Subject.
  F.
 Transmissibility of Rights of Data Subjects  The lawful heirs and assigns of the Data Subject may invoke the rights of the Data Subject to which he or she is an heir or an assignee, at any time after the death  of  the  Data  Subject,  or  when  the  Data  Subject  is  incapacitated  or incapable of exercising his/her rights.
  G.
 Data Portability  Where  his  or  her  Personal  Data  is  processed  by  the Company  through electronic  means  and  in  a  structured  and  commonly  used  format,  the  Data Subject shall have the right to obtain a copy of such data in an electronic or structured format that is commonly used and allows for further use by the Data Subject.
 The exercise of this right shall primarily take into account the right of Data  Subject  to  have  control  over  his  or  her  Personal  Data  being  processed based on consent or contract, for commercial purpose, or through automated means.
 The DPO shall regularly monitor and implement the National Privacy Commission’s issuances specifying the electronic format referred to above, as well as the technical standards, modalities, procedures and other rules for their transfer.
  Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 11   11 VI.
 DATA BREACHES & SECURITY INCIDENTS  A.
 Data Breach Notification  All  employees  and  agents  of  the  Company  involved  in  the  Processing  of Personal Data are tasked with regularly monitoring for signs of a possible data breach  or  Security  Incident.
  In  the  event  that  such  signs  are  discovered,  the employee or agent shall immediately report the facts and circumstances to the DPO within twenty-four (24) hours from his or her discovery for verification as to whether or not a breach requiring notification under the Data Privacy Act has  occurred  as  well  as  for  the  determination  of  the  relevant  circumstances surrounding  the  reported  breach  and/or  Security  Incident.
    The  DPO  shall notify  the  National  Privacy  Commission  and  the  affected  Data  Subjects pursuant to requirements and procedures prescribed by the DPA.
   The  notification  to  the  National  Privacy  Commission  and  the  affected  Data Subjects  shall  at  least  describe  the  nature  of  the breach,  the  Personal  Data possibly  involved,  and  the  measures  taken  by  the  Company  to  address  the breach.
 The notification shall also include measures taken to reduce the harm or negative consequences of the breach and the name and contact details of the DPO.
 The form and procedure for notification shall conform to the regulations and circulars issued by the National Privacy Commission, as may be updated from time to time.  B.
 Breach Reports  All  Security  Incidents  and  Personal  Data  breaches  shall  be  documented through  written  reports,  including  those  not  covered  by  the  notification requirements.
 In the case of Personal Data breaches, a report shall include the facts  surrounding  an  incident,  the  effects  of  such incident,  and  the  remedial actions  taken  by  the  Company.
  In  other  security  incidents  not  involving Personal Data, a report containing aggregated data shall constitute sufficient documentation.
 These reports shall be made available when requested by the National  Privacy  Commission.
  A  general  summary  of  the  reports  shall  be submitted by the DPO to the National Privacy Commission annually.
  VII.
 OUTSOURCING AND SUBCONTRACTING AGREEMENTS  Any  Personal  Data  Processing  conducted  by  an  external  agent  or  entity  (third-party service provider) on behalf of the Company should be evidenced by a valid written contract with the Company.
  Such contract should expressly set out the Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 12   12 subject  matter  and  duration  of  the  Processing,  the nature  and  purpose  of  the Processing,  the  type  of  Personal  Data  and  categories  of  Data  Subjects,  the obligations  and  rights  of  the  Company,  and  the  geographic  location  of  the Processing under the contract.
  The  fact  that  the  Company  entered  into  such  contract  or  arrangement  does  not give the said external agent or entity the authority to subcontract to another entity the  whole  or  part  of  the  subject  matter  of  said  contract  or  arrangement,  unless expressly  stipulated  in  writing  in  the  same  contract  or  evidenced  by  a  separate written consent/agreement of the Company.
  The subcontracting agreement must also comply with the standards/criteria prescribed by the immediately preceding paragraph.
   In  addition,  the  contract  and  the  subcontracting  contract  shall  include  express stipulations requiring the external agent or entity (including the subcontractor) to:  A.
 process  the  Personal  Data  only  upon  the  documented instructions  of  the Company,  including  transfers  of  Personal  Data  to  another  country  or  an international organization, unless such transfer is required by law;
  B.
 ensure  that  an  obligation  of  confidentiality  is  imposed  on  persons  and employees  authorized  by  the  external  agent/entity  and  subcontractor  to process the Personal Data;
  C.
 implement appropriate security measures;
  D.
 comply  with  the  Data  Privacy  Act  and  other  issuances  of  the  National Privacy  Commission,  and  other  applicable  laws,  in  addition  to  the obligations  provided  in  the  contract,  or  other  legal  act  with  the  external party;
  E. not engage another processor without prior instruction from the Company: Provided, that any such arrangement shall ensure that the same obligations for data protection under the contract or legal act are implemented, taking into account the nature of the Processing;
  F.
 assist the Company, by appropriate technical and organizational measures, and to the extent possible, fulfill the obligation to respond to requests by Data Subjects relative to the exercise of their rights;
  G.
 assist the Company in ensuring compliance with the Data Privacy Act and other issuances of the National Privacy Commission, taking into account the Personal Data Privacy Policy San Miguel Corporation_____ 13   13 nature  of  Processing  and  the  information  available to  the  external  party who  acts  as  a  Personal  Information  Processor  as  defined  under  the  Data Privacy Act;
  H.
 at the choice of the Company, delete or return all Personal Data to it after the end of the provision of services relating to the Processing: Provided, that this  includes  deleting  existing  copies  unless  storage  is  authorized  by  the Data Privacy Act or other applicable laws or regulations;
  I.
 make available to the Company all information necessary to demonstrate compliance  with  the  obligations  laid  down  in  the  Data  Privacy  Act,  and allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections, conducted by the Company or another auditor mandated by the latter;
 and  J.
 immediately inform the Company if, in its opinion, an instruction violates the  Data  Privacy  Act  or  any  other  issuance  of  the  National  Privacy Commission.
    As approved by the Board of Directors on 10 May 2017. 